This is me, trying to do journaling, the digital way. 
The purpose of this is to see what happens when your writing speed matches your thinking speed. Does it enhance your writing capability or not? 

Why is writing such a difficult thing to do? And asking questions such an easy task.

Iqbal Sahab is one of the best writers Ive heard. That is due to the fact that I appreciate good writing and dont read much Urdu(therefore have less substance to compare his writing with). But what was made most clear is that there are some downsides to having a great amount of knowledge. The purpose of Deeni Ilm is to bring your closer to Allah swt. It is so that you get the feeling of "kurb"(closeness to Allah) when youre sitting in a deeni mehfil. OR is it to question everything that we have?

Yesterday's session brought up more questions and disagreements than it did answers. But it was necessary nonetheless. You learn from people who are doing the right thing but you learn equally from those as well who are not doing what needs to be done. 

But there were a lot of good side to the discussion as well obviously. First, the dhikr of "priniciples" of Islam. These principles are important in order to strengthen one's Imaan.  

One thing which needs to be added to this Year's resolution is to explore the Quraan as much as possible. A system needs to be created for this which will perfect itself with time. Whats interesting is that the learning can also be documented which will serve two purposes:
	1. Active learning of Quraan
	2. Improve my written expression (which i am aiming for these days)

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ten minutes inside the first session - Everything which you learn should bring your closer to Allah swt. Make this your intent

. The heart is not in the middle.

verse 22 - If Allah wills to do something, there is no one on the earth which will prevent it from something. The most fundamental principle of Islam. 

verse 37 - The sun has a cycle. It rises and it sets. -- signs for people of understanding