17th March

Good teachers give the best examples. lesson: teach with analogies
--> Be quick towards action. Implement whatever you learn as fast as you can. this helps in info retentiona as well as we remember better what we do.

2 examples

Comparsions. what prophet PBUH faced with the people of Makkah... Musa AS faced with firaun. Allah paak is letting the Prophet learn from the people who came before him

there are two parts to MUSA AS story. one before the water, wherein MUSA AS is dealing with firaun.. and the one after the water, MUSA AS dealing with his own people, his own community (internal problem: hypocrites)

Seerah:
1. before crossing the desert
2. after crossing the desert

Ustaadh Nouman says that the hypocrites were a bigger problem than the external enemies. Doesnt this suggest that the internal circle you have matters more than the outside fitnas you have got to face. The ones inside your circle, if they hurt you or decieve you, you dont know that. 
--> Be mindful of the inner circle.

1. Beleivers
2. disbeleivers
3. hypocrites (munafiqun) 

Adam AS and then lots of detail about Bani Isreal(Munafiqun of Prophet's time)

Do everything with Ikhlaas. Practice Ikhlas.
stopping after 10 Surahs. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Onwards from verse 11..

11 - hypocrites ki baaat. 
12 - 
13 - why dont u believe like ideals. the true believers. the munafiqun dont sacrifice. they see the sacrifice as foolishness. 
14 -  
15 - Allah lets them run blind. blind of the heart
16 - 

at this point Ustaadh takes his notes out. 
he says... how can someone say that they believe. but they dont believe at all. this questions is worth pondering over..
--> = two faced ness. 

-- disease in their heart. Allah makes the disease worse. be openminded and think about what is right. 

-- they think they are really smart. but they are not. never think you are smart. never. humility. 

firaun - Quraysh
banu isreal - munafiqun(they did not migrate from Makkah)

what do they have in common? 
14 tribes. too many opinions. they were trying to make a central govt.
they wanted to have one king - Abdullah bin ubaye

Banu isreal recieved one Prophet after the other. MUSA Haroon... until ISA AS.

Madina and Jewish people have in common : hoping to get a leader. who would lead them to victory. lot of fights within themselves. considered themselves more savvy more knowledgable. 

17 - Allah gives an example. MASAL was used when painting a picture. kahawat. masal was used as something as something very powerful. kahawat. you say it as is. proverb. amsaal. comparing a situation with a situation
somebody tried to light a fire. out in the middle of wilderness. arabs were not an advance civilization. lighting fire was common/relatable to the Arabs. 

other perspective: before the Quran, Prophet used to like solitude. 
Interesting: Prophet used to prefer the seclusion so much.. that he used to spend his time in caves. and it was really difficult to go to these caves. 
physically demanding. Khadija RA used to bring him food. amazing wife.

what did he was comtemplating about? he used to think about the solutions. 
1. I help the poor, poverty increases.
2. help the victim, but wrongdoing increases.

they help more and more. but the problem is increasing more and more. 
Prophet PBUH(MUSA AS) in the cave would probably strike a fire in the cave. 
Quran is noor. Quranic literature.

I wanted to read and understand literature. Allah illuminated my life...

Even in the brightest of lights, the only person who cant benifit is the one who blindfolds himself.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
continuing from 43 mins onwards..






































































